README.md, before:

# EDI.Net
EDI Parser/Deserializer. A ground up implementation and does not make use of `XML Serialization` in any step of the process. This reduces the overhead of converting into multiple formats allong whe way of getting the desired Clr object.

At the moment working for Tradacoms/EDI Fact formats. 

Using attributes you can express all EDI rules like Mandatory/Conditional Segments,Elements & Components 
as well as describe component values with the picture syntax (e.g `9(3)`, `9(10)V9(2)` and `X(3)`).

#### Example Usage:
```csharp
var grammar = EdiGrammar.NewTradacoms();
var interchange = default(Interchange);
using (var stream = new StreamReader(@"c:\temp\sample.edi")) {
    interchange = new EdiSerializer().Deserialize<Interchange>(stream, grammar);
}
```
Annotated POCOS example using **part** of Tradacoms UtilityBill format:

```csharp
public class Interchange
{
    [EdiValue("X(14)", Path = "STX/1/0")]
    public string SenderCode { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("X(35)", Path = "STX/1/1")]
    public string SenderName { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("9(6)", Path = "STX/3/0", Format = "yyMMdd", Description = "TRDT - Date")]
    [EdiValue("9(6)", Path = "STX/3/1", Format = "HHmmss", Description = "TRDT - Time")]
    public DateTime TransmissionStamp { get; set; }

    public InterchangeHeader Header { get; set; }

    public InterchangeTrailer Trailer { get; set; }

    public List<UtilityBill> Invoices { get; set; }
}

[EdiMessage, EdiCondition("UTLHDR", Path = "MHD/1")]
public class InterchangeHeader
{
    [EdiValue("9(4)"), EdiPath("TYP")]
    public string TransactionCode { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("9(1)", Path = "MHD/1/1")]
    public int Version { get; set; }
}

[EdiMessage, EdiCondition("UTLTLR", Path = "MHD/1")]
public class InterchangeTrailer
{

    [EdiValue("9(1)", Path = "MHD/1/1")]
    public int Version { get; set; }
}

[EdiMessage, EdiCondition("UTLBIL", Path = "MHD/1")]
public class UtilityBill
{
    [EdiValue("9(1)", Path = "MHD/1/1")]
    public int Version { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("X(17)", Path = "BCD/2/0", Description = "INVN - Date")]
    public string InvoiceNumber { get; set; }

    public MetetAdminNumber Meter { get; set; }
    public ContractData SupplyContract { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("X(3)", Path = "BCD/5/0", Description = "BTCD - Date")]
    public BillTypeCode BillTypeCode { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("9(6)", Path = "BCD/1/0", Format = "yyMMdd", Description = "TXDT - Date")]
    public DateTime IssueDate { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("9(6)", Path = "BCD/7/0", Format = "yyMMdd", Description = "SUMO - Date")]
    public DateTime StartDate { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("9(6)", Path = "BCD/7/1", Format = "yyMMdd", Description = "SUMO - Date")]
    public DateTime EndDate { get; set; }

    public UtilityBillTrailer Totals { get; set; }
    public UtilityBillValueAddedTax Vat { get; set; }
    public List<UtilityBillCharge> Charges { get; set; }

    public override string ToString() {
        return string.Format("{0} TD:{1:d} F:{2:d} T:{3:d} Type:{4}", InvoiceNumber, IssueDate, StartDate, EndDate, BillTypeCode);
    }
}

[EdiSegment, EdiPath("CCD")]
public class UtilityBillCharge
{
    [EdiValue("9(10)", Path = "CCD/0")]
    public int SequenceNumber { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("X(3)", Path = "CCD/1")]
    public ChargeIndicator? ChargeIndicator { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("9(13)", Path = "CCD/1/1")]
    public int? ArticleNumber { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("X(3)", Path = "CCD/1/2")]
    public string SupplierCode { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("9(10)V9(3)", Path = "CCD/10/0", Description = "CONS")]
    public decimal? UnitsConsumedBilling { get; set; }
}
```


#### Roadmap (TODO)

1. Update samples with Order9 and UtilityBill for tradacoms.
2. Showcase more cases using the EDIFact format.
4. Implement serializer `Serialize` to write Clr classes to edi format (Using attributes).  
5. Consider adding support for X12 format.

_Disclaimer. The project was inspired and influenced by the work done in the excellent library [JSON.Net](https://github.com/JamesNK/Newtonsoft.Json) by James Newton King. Some utility parts for reflection string parsing etc. are used as is_

Commit message:

uodated readme with nuget command & link

README.md, after:

# EDI.Net
EDI Parser/Deserializer. A ground up implementation and does not make use of `XML Serialization` in any step of the process. This reduces the overhead of converting into multiple formats allong whe way of getting the desired Clr object.

At the moment working for Tradacoms/EDI Fact formats. 

Using attributes you can express all EDI rules like Mandatory/Conditional Segments,Elements & Components 
as well as describe component values with the picture syntax (e.g `9(3)`, `9(10)V9(2)` and `X(3)`).

#### Installation

To install Edi.Net, run the following command in the Package Manager Console. Or download it [here](https://www.nuget.org/packages/indice.Edi/)

    PM> Install-Package "indice.Edi"


#### Example Usage:
```csharp
var grammar = EdiGrammar.NewTradacoms();
var interchange = default(Interchange);
using (var stream = new StreamReader(@"c:\temp\sample.edi")) {
    interchange = new EdiSerializer().Deserialize<Interchange>(stream, grammar);
}
```
Annotated POCOS example using **part** of Tradacoms UtilityBill format:

```csharp
public class Interchange
{
    [EdiValue("X(14)", Path = "STX/1/0")]
    public string SenderCode { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("X(35)", Path = "STX/1/1")]
    public string SenderName { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("9(6)", Path = "STX/3/0", Format = "yyMMdd", Description = "TRDT - Date")]
    [EdiValue("9(6)", Path = "STX/3/1", Format = "HHmmss", Description = "TRDT - Time")]
    public DateTime TransmissionStamp { get; set; }

    public InterchangeHeader Header { get; set; }

    public InterchangeTrailer Trailer { get; set; }

    public List<UtilityBill> Invoices { get; set; }
}

[EdiMessage, EdiCondition("UTLHDR", Path = "MHD/1")]
public class InterchangeHeader
{
    [EdiValue("9(4)"), EdiPath("TYP")]
    public string TransactionCode { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("9(1)", Path = "MHD/1/1")]
    public int Version { get; set; }
}

[EdiMessage, EdiCondition("UTLTLR", Path = "MHD/1")]
public class InterchangeTrailer
{

    [EdiValue("9(1)", Path = "MHD/1/1")]
    public int Version { get; set; }
}

[EdiMessage, EdiCondition("UTLBIL", Path = "MHD/1")]
public class UtilityBill
{
    [EdiValue("9(1)", Path = "MHD/1/1")]
    public int Version { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("X(17)", Path = "BCD/2/0", Description = "INVN - Date")]
    public string InvoiceNumber { get; set; }

    public MetetAdminNumber Meter { get; set; }
    public ContractData SupplyContract { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("X(3)", Path = "BCD/5/0", Description = "BTCD - Date")]
    public BillTypeCode BillTypeCode { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("9(6)", Path = "BCD/1/0", Format = "yyMMdd", Description = "TXDT - Date")]
    public DateTime IssueDate { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("9(6)", Path = "BCD/7/0", Format = "yyMMdd", Description = "SUMO - Date")]
    public DateTime StartDate { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("9(6)", Path = "BCD/7/1", Format = "yyMMdd", Description = "SUMO - Date")]
    public DateTime EndDate { get; set; }

    public UtilityBillTrailer Totals { get; set; }
    public UtilityBillValueAddedTax Vat { get; set; }
    public List<UtilityBillCharge> Charges { get; set; }

    public override string ToString() {
        return string.Format("{0} TD:{1:d} F:{2:d} T:{3:d} Type:{4}", InvoiceNumber, IssueDate, StartDate, EndDate, BillTypeCode);
    }
}

[EdiSegment, EdiPath("CCD")]
public class UtilityBillCharge
{
    [EdiValue("9(10)", Path = "CCD/0")]
    public int SequenceNumber { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("X(3)", Path = "CCD/1")]
    public ChargeIndicator? ChargeIndicator { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("9(13)", Path = "CCD/1/1")]
    public int? ArticleNumber { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("X(3)", Path = "CCD/1/2")]
    public string SupplierCode { get; set; }

    [EdiValue("9(10)V9(3)", Path = "CCD/10/0", Description = "CONS")]
    public decimal? UnitsConsumedBilling { get; set; }
}
```


#### Roadmap (TODO)

1. Update samples with Order9 and UtilityBill for tradacoms.
2. Showcase more cases using the EDIFact format.
4. Implement serializer `Serialize` to write Clr classes to edi format (Using attributes).  
5. Consider adding support for X12 format.

_Disclaimer. The project was inspired and influenced by the work done in the excellent library [JSON.Net](https://github.com/JamesNK/Newtonsoft.Json) by James Newton King. Some utility parts for reflection string parsing etc. are used as is_
